all right well I'm here with James baz
our diplomatic editor uh and James we
have now I understand had confirmation
from both katar and Hamas that there has
indeed been an extension for two days in
the ceasefire of course all of this was
hypothetical now this seems to be the
nearest confirmation we've had so far
that this will indeed happen this is
important news and as we were hearing
earlier on it's come at the same time as
I think they've nailed down the exact um
numbers and names of those that are
going to be exchanged in the coming
hours that was taking some time but it
seems that both of these things have
been done at the same time the Israeli
um prime minister's office informing the
Israeli families uh some 13 um captives
to be released in the coming hours we
think 33 Palestinians so that's the
completion of the 4day agreement and now
we have two more days so we potentially
I think we don't know the numbers but we
potentially have about 10
um captives Israeli captives each day
released and probably potentially about
30 Palestinians on either side so an
important development and this of course
means that the bombardment in Gaza does
not start again because if we hadn't had
this deal at 7 a.m. Gaza time just a few
hours from now then the bombardment
would have started um so it is resite
further respite for uh those on the
ground in Gaza it also means that more
Aid can come in and although the aid the
UN and the red Cresent and others say is
not enough every day means they can
start to replenish the stocks in Gaza
particularly the fuel to try and get
desalination plants going to try and get
hospitals going to try and get some of
the most basic facilities that are
needed to keep Palestinians alive not
just with hospitals but with the real
threat of disease the real threat of
starvation that been warned by by Aid
agencies and the UN so this is good news
for everyone it seems at this
stage okay James spay our diplomatic Ed
there thank you very much for that well
let's go to TK Abu aom who's in carun
and TK we have had now confirmation just
a few moments ago that there will indeed
be an extension of two days this will
have come of course as huge relief for
the people in
Gaza absolutely that's true as th those
two days came after four days of truth
that had been agreed between Hamas and
Israel under Qatari and even Regional uh
uh supervision and mediation now
Palestinians are are really now happy
they start now again to move because
they were asking about the possibility
of the extension for further days of
ceasefire on the ground in order to also
uh come back again to the normal lives
but it's also important for Palestinians
is that there is going to be a much more
guarantee of of Flo with humanitarian
Aid due to the fact that this two days
of ceasefire additional ceasefire had
been clearly under the same terms and
the same conditions related to the
release of hostages between both sides
and also to the uh to guarantee the flow
of the humanitarian AIDS into the Gaza
Strip now uh uh what had been enter to
the Gaza Strip during the last couple of
days in terms of the humanitarian AIDS
considered to be limited with the needs
of the territory but what is also
important to mention is that there is no
any of the fuel that had been delivered
to the north of the Gaza Strip This is
according to the Palestinian Ministry of
Health in their territory but generally
a sense of relief Comfort had been now
spread among Palestinians as they now
have been confirmed by the katari
foreign Ministry that they are had
agreed uh and even reach a kind of
extension for the Seas fight between
Hamas and Israel on the ground which
means that there's going to be
additional two days clear of Relentless
Israeli attacks without any destruction
or even injuries reported in Gaza
Strip yeah
right yeah so Aid is going through for
now of course tck um given that we have
this now two-day extension the hope is
that a continued Aid will go to those
that need it most particularly
potentially in the north of the Gaza
Strip
too uh generally the north of the Gaza
STP this this area had been completely
deprived from the humanitarian Aid just
before the time of the ceasefire that
had been healed earlier between Hamas
and Israel meanwhile they were running
low completely on fuel water and even
they canot have any kind of delivery of
uh uh fuel to to this area due to the
Israeli prevention of the entry of a
fuel and gas into the territory now it's
it's maybe it could be allowed to the
reach of the fuel to the uh north of the
territory but till this very moment
there's no any confirmation from local
authorities inside the Gaza Strip that
there is going to be much more Aid in
terms of fuel that will be delivered to
the north of Gaza Strip but generally
these kinds of a humanitarian Aid
considered to be important as the north
of the Gaza Strip uh was uh experiencing
very dangerous uh humanitarian uh
circumstances due to the ongoing
blackout of electricity the absence of
the humanitarian AIDS and now those
people who are still inside the north of
the Gaza Strip they are in very
desperate needs for the for this
humanitarian AIDS which will relatively
help to aggravate to to mitigate the
aggravating a humanitarian crisis in
particular in this small isolated area
in the north of the territory all right
T many thanks for that TK AB zoom in car
unun there well back uh with James baz
our diplomatic editor here in the studio
and we were saying a short while ago
this breaking news that we have indeed
have confirmation from Qatar key
mediator in all of this that have Hamas
has agreed to a truce to be extended by
two days this is vitally important
vitally important step as we've heard
from uh uh TK abuo it means a lot in
terms of aid but it also means a lot in
terms of captives too it means a lot to
the people of Gaza and it means a lot to
families on both sides who are watching
every single development here this will
be more um women I think most of the
children have been released um uh but
but there may may well be many more
children on the Palestinian side but in
terms of the Israeli captives we're not
sure how many children there are left um
we think that um in the coming hours
maybe even now behind the scenes the
latest transfer will be about to take
place and we know how that works now
it's a transfer after Qatar with the
help of Egypt has done the mediation
it's a transfer that takes place uh with
the international Committee of the Red
Cross in Gaza they will take the people
out probably to Rafa not NE necessarily
to Rafa and it's 11 that we're talking
about tonight but then the extension is
two more days and we assume that the two
more days will will fit the pattern that
we've seen up until now so it'll be
about or at least 10 released in terms
of Israeli captives held in Gaza each
day and then three times that in terms
of Palestinians so about 30 at least
Palestinian prisoners uh will be
released so that then takes us um for to
to a total now period of truce of
temporary Ceasar of six uh days so that
that means that now the people of Gaza
unless there's any violation by by any
side have a breathing space until 7 a.m.
on Thursday morning Gaza time as Tark
just said it means more Aid trucks can
come in the UN I think really feels it's
not got enough Aid in yet uh to sustain
the people of Gaza given how no fuel was
allowed in for such a very very long
period until literally just hours before
uh the the pause in the bombardment um
they're hoping they can make a dent in a
really desperate humanitarian situation
in this time I think it's important to
also add that this latest information is
also being confirmed from the Israeli
side on Israeli media from the Israeli
leadership as well an indication of the
kind of tireless mediation that's gone
on behind the scenes while this 4-day
process was in action yeah you saw in
hashim's report that Command Center that
Operation Center here in Doha katar in
many ways the lynchpin of this but that
doesn't mean there not other players
who've been very very important to
what's been going on uh notable as I say
as the international Committee of the
Red Cross because they do the
facilitation on the ground they don't
actually want to be involved in the
negotiations they want to keep
themselves completely neutral so that on
the ground they can operate and be
trusted by all sides and that's what
they've been doing um getting the
captives out of Gaza Egypt has a key
role because Egypt controls the only
gate to Gaza that is not controlled by
the Israelis so Egypt has an important
role there and Egypt of course has the
longest standing peace deal with Israel
so it's the Arab nation that probably
has the best um way ways to deal uh with
the Israeli side and of course you've
got lots of other foreign governments
but notable among them putting pressure
I think on Israel sometimes uh and some
restraint on Israel is the United States
which has been um very closely involved
as well and Kar has a very good
relations with the United States as well
all right James many thanks for that
James Bay our diplomatic editor there